_your zenodo badge here_

# li-etal_2023

**Persistent Urban Heat**

Dan Li<sup>1\*</sup>, Linying Wang<sup>1</sup>, Weilin Liao<sup>2</sup>, Ting Sun<sup>3</sup>,Gabriel Katul<sup>4</sup>, Elie Bou-Zeid<sup>5</sup>, and Björn Maronga<sup>6,7</sup>

<sup>1 </sup> Department of Earth and Environment, Boston University, Boston, USA

<sup>2 </sup> Guangdong Key Laboratory for Urbanization and Geo-simulation, School of Geography and Planning, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China 

<sup>3 </sup> Institute for Risk and Disaster Reduction, University of College London, London, UK

<sup>4 </sup> Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Duke University, Durham, USA

<sup>5 </sup> Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Princeton University, Princeton, USA

<sup>6 </sup> Institute of Meteorology and Climatology, Leibniz University Hannover, Hannover, Germany

<sup>7 </sup> Geophysical Institute, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway

\* corresponding author:  lidan@bu.edu

## Abstract
While urban surface and near-surface air temperatures are known to be often higher than their rural counterparts, a phenomenon labeled as urban heat islands (UHIs), whether urban temperatures are more persistent than rural temperatures at time scales commensurate to heat waves has not been addressed despite the importance for human health. Combining numerical simulations by a global model with a surface energy balance theory, we demonstrate that urban surface and near-surface air temperatures are significantly more persistent than their rural counterparts in cities dominated by materials with large thermal inertia. Further use of these materials will result in even stronger urban temperature persistence, especially for tropical cities. Mitigation strategies that can simultaneously ameliorate the larger magnitude and stronger persistence of urban temperatures are recommended.

## Journal reference
Li, D., L. Wang, W. Liao, T. Sun, G. Katul, E. Bou-Zeid, & B. Maronga (2023). Persistent Urban Heat. 

## Code reference
References for each minted software release for all code involved.  

These are generated by Zenodo automatically when conducting a release when Zenodo has been linked to your GitHub repository. The Zenodo references are built by setting the author order in order of contribution to the code using the author's GitHub user name.  This citation can, and likely should, be edited without altering the DOI.

If you have modified a codebase that is outside of a formal release, and the modifications are not planned on being merged back into a version, fork the parent repository and add a `.<shortname>` to the version number of the parent and construct your own name.  For example, `v1.2.5.hydro`.

Human, I.M. (2021, April 14). Project/repo:v0.1.0 (Version v0.1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/some-doi-number/zenodo.7777777

## Data reference

### Input data
Reference for each minted data source for your input data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My input dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

### Output data
Reference for each minted data source for your output data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My output dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

## Contributing modeling software
| Model | Version | Repository Link | DOI |
|-------|---------|-----------------|-----|
| model 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| model 2 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| component 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |

## Reproduce my experiment
Fill in detailed info here or link to other documentation that is a thorough walkthrough of how to use what is in this repository to reproduce your experiment.


1. Install the software components required to conduct the experiement from [Contributing modeling software](#contributing-modeling-software)
2. Download and install the supporting input data required to conduct the experiement from [Input data](#input-data)
3. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to re-create this experiment:

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `step_one.py` | Script to run the first part of my experiment | `python3 step_one.py -f /path/to/inputdata/file_one.csv` |
| `step_two.py` | Script to run the last part of my experiment | `python3 step_two.py -o /path/to/my/outputdir` |

4. Download and unzip the output data from my experiment [Output data](#output-data)
5. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to compare my outputs to those from the publication

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `compare.py` | Script to compare my outputs to the original | `python3 compare.py --orig /path/to/original/data.csv --new /path/to/new/data.csv` |

## Reproduce my figures
Use the scripts found in the `figures` directory to reproduce the figures used in this publication.

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `generate_figures.py` | Script to generate my figures | `python3 generate_figures.py -i /path/to/inputs -o /path/to/outuptdir` |
